p8105_hw1_zh2494.md, before:

p8105\_hw1\_zh2494
================
zhuolun
9/23/2021

# Library

# problem 1

``` r
problem_1_df = tibble(
  vec_numeric = rnorm(n = 10),
  vec_logical = vec_numeric > 0,
  vec_char = c("a","b","c","d","e","f","g","h","I","g"),
  vec_factor = factor(c("high","low","median","high","low","median","high","low","median","high"))
)
problem_1_df
```

    ## # A tibble: 10 × 4
    ##    vec_numeric vec_logical vec_char vec_factor
    ##          <dbl> <lgl>       <chr>    <fct>     
    ##  1      -1.79  FALSE       a        high      
    ##  2       0.338 TRUE        b        low       
    ##  3       0.188 TRUE        c        median    
    ##  4       0.471 TRUE        d        high      
    ##  5      -1.29  FALSE       e        low       
    ##  6       0.166 TRUE        f        median    
    ##  7       0.855 TRUE        g        high      
    ##  8      -0.892 FALSE       h        low       
    ##  9      -0.356 FALSE       I        median    
    ## 10      -0.721 FALSE       g        high

# section 3

``` r
mean_numeric = mean(pull(problem_1_df, vec_numeric))
mean_logical = mean(as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, vec_logical)))
mean_char = mean(as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, vec_char)))
```

    ## Warning in mean(as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, vec_char))): NAs introduced by
    ## coercion

``` r
mean_factor = mean(as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, vec_factor)))
```

The mean of the numeric number is -0.3021938 The mean of the numeric
number is 0.5 The mean of the numeric number is NA,the result is NA,
because the charater is not converted to number. The mean of the numeric
number is 1.9

# section 4

``` r
# install.packages("palmerpenguins")
data("penguins", package = "palmerpenguins")
view(penguins)
mean(as.numeric(pull(penguins,flipper_length_mm)))
```

    ## [1] NA

``` r
skimr::skim(penguins)
```

|                                                  |          |
|:-------------------------------------------------|:---------|
| Name                                             | penguins |
| Number of rows                                   | 344      |
| Number of columns                                | 8        |
| \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_   |          |
| Column type frequency:                           |          |
| factor                                           | 3        |
| numeric                                          | 5        |
| \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ |          |
| Group variables                                  | None     |

Data summary

**Variable type: factor**

| skim\_variable | n\_missing | complete\_rate | ordered | n\_unique | top\_counts                 |
|:---------------|-----------:|---------------:|:--------|----------:|:----------------------------|
| species        |          0 |           1.00 | FALSE   |         3 | Ade: 152, Gen: 124, Chi: 68 |
| island         |          0 |           1.00 | FALSE   |         3 | Bis: 168, Dre: 124, Tor: 52 |
| sex            |         11 |           0.97 | FALSE   |         2 | mal: 168, fem: 165          |

**Variable type: numeric**

| skim\_variable      | n\_missing | complete\_rate |    mean |     sd |     p0 |     p25 |     p50 |    p75 |   p100 | hist  |
|:--------------------|-----------:|---------------:|--------:|-------:|-------:|--------:|--------:|-------:|-------:|:------|
| bill\_length\_mm    |          2 |           0.99 |   43.92 |   5.46 |   32.1 |   39.23 |   44.45 |   48.5 |   59.6 | ▃▇▇▆▁ |
| bill\_depth\_mm     |          2 |           0.99 |   17.15 |   1.97 |   13.1 |   15.60 |   17.30 |   18.7 |   21.5 | ▅▅▇▇▂ |
| flipper\_length\_mm |          2 |           0.99 |  200.92 |  14.06 |  172.0 |  190.00 |  197.00 |  213.0 |  231.0 | ▂▇▃▅▂ |
| body\_mass\_g       |          2 |           0.99 | 4201.75 | 801.95 | 2700.0 | 3550.00 | 4050.00 | 4750.0 | 6300.0 | ▃▇▆▃▂ |
| year                |          0 |           1.00 | 2008.03 |   0.82 | 2007.0 | 2007.00 | 2008.00 | 2009.0 | 2009.0 | ▇▁▇▁▇ |

``` r
a = as.numeric(pull(penguins,flipper_length_mm))
a1 = a[!is.na(a)]
mean(a1)
```

    ## [1] 200.9152

• The names of the penguins are species, island, bill\_length\_mm,
bill\_depth\_mm, flipper\_length\_mm, body\_mass\_g, sex, year • The
mean of the flipper length is NA • The data frame penguins has 344 rows
• The data frame penguins has 8 columns • The mean flipper length is
200.9152047

``` r
ggplot(penguins, aes(x = bill_length_mm,y = flipper_length_mm,color = species)) + geom_point()
```

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

![](p8105_hw1_zh2494_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave("scatter_plot.jpeg", height = 4, width = 4)
```

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

Commit message:

take the note for the explanation of create the dataframe

p8105_hw1_zh2494.md, after:

p8105\_hw1\_zh2494
================
zhuolun
9/23/2021

# problem 1

-   create the data frame

``` r
problem_1_df = tibble(
  vec_numeric = rnorm(n = 10), # a random sample of size 10 from a standard normal distrbution
  vec_logical = vec_numeric > 0, # a logical vector indicating whether elements of the sample are greater than 0
  vec_char = c("a","b","c","d","e","f","g","h","I","g"), # a character vector of length 10
  vec_factor = factor(c("high","low","median","high","low","median","high","low","median","high"))
) # a factor vector of length 10, with 3 different factor “levels”

# problem_1 data frame
problem_1_df 
```

    ## # A tibble: 10 × 4
    ##    vec_numeric vec_logical vec_char vec_factor
    ##          <dbl> <lgl>       <chr>    <fct>     
    ##  1     0.197   TRUE        a        high      
    ##  2    -1.22    FALSE       b        low       
    ##  3    -0.185   FALSE       c        median    
    ##  4    -1.54    FALSE       d        high      
    ##  5    -0.709   FALSE       e        low       
    ##  6     1.11    TRUE        f        median    
    ##  7     0.00360 TRUE        g        high      
    ##  8    -0.270   FALSE       h        low       
    ##  9    -1.13    FALSE       I        median    
    ## 10     1.64    TRUE        g        high

# section 3

``` r
mean_numeric = mean(pull(problem_1_df, vec_numeric))
mean_logical = mean(as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, vec_logical)))
mean_char = mean(as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, vec_char)))
```

    ## Warning in mean(as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, vec_char))): NAs introduced by
    ## coercion

``` r
mean_factor = mean(as.numeric(pull(problem_1_df, vec_factor)))
```

The mean of the numeric number is -0.2102767 The mean of the numeric
number is 0.4 The mean of the numeric number is NA,the result is NA,
because the charater is not converted to number. The mean of the numeric
number is 1.9

# section 4

``` r
# install.packages("palmerpenguins")
data("penguins", package = "palmerpenguins")
view(penguins)
mean(as.numeric(pull(penguins,flipper_length_mm)))
```

    ## [1] NA

``` r
skimr::skim(penguins)
```

|                                                  |          |
|:-------------------------------------------------|:---------|
| Name                                             | penguins |
| Number of rows                                   | 344      |
| Number of columns                                | 8        |
| \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_   |          |
| Column type frequency:                           |          |
| factor                                           | 3        |
| numeric                                          | 5        |
| \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ |          |
| Group variables                                  | None     |

Data summary

**Variable type: factor**

| skim\_variable | n\_missing | complete\_rate | ordered | n\_unique | top\_counts                 |
|:---------------|-----------:|---------------:|:--------|----------:|:----------------------------|
| species        |          0 |           1.00 | FALSE   |         3 | Ade: 152, Gen: 124, Chi: 68 |
| island         |          0 |           1.00 | FALSE   |         3 | Bis: 168, Dre: 124, Tor: 52 |
| sex            |         11 |           0.97 | FALSE   |         2 | mal: 168, fem: 165          |

**Variable type: numeric**

| skim\_variable      | n\_missing | complete\_rate |    mean |     sd |     p0 |     p25 |     p50 |    p75 |   p100 | hist  |
|:--------------------|-----------:|---------------:|--------:|-------:|-------:|--------:|--------:|-------:|-------:|:------|
| bill\_length\_mm    |          2 |           0.99 |   43.92 |   5.46 |   32.1 |   39.23 |   44.45 |   48.5 |   59.6 | ▃▇▇▆▁ |
| bill\_depth\_mm     |          2 |           0.99 |   17.15 |   1.97 |   13.1 |   15.60 |   17.30 |   18.7 |   21.5 | ▅▅▇▇▂ |
| flipper\_length\_mm |          2 |           0.99 |  200.92 |  14.06 |  172.0 |  190.00 |  197.00 |  213.0 |  231.0 | ▂▇▃▅▂ |
| body\_mass\_g       |          2 |           0.99 | 4201.75 | 801.95 | 2700.0 | 3550.00 | 4050.00 | 4750.0 | 6300.0 | ▃▇▆▃▂ |
| year                |          0 |           1.00 | 2008.03 |   0.82 | 2007.0 | 2007.00 | 2008.00 | 2009.0 | 2009.0 | ▇▁▇▁▇ |

``` r
a = as.numeric(pull(penguins,flipper_length_mm))
a1 = a[!is.na(a)]
mean(a1)
```

    ## [1] 200.9152

• The names of the penguins are species, island, bill\_length\_mm,
bill\_depth\_mm, flipper\_length\_mm, body\_mass\_g, sex, year • The
mean of the flipper length is NA • The data frame penguins has 344 rows
• The data frame penguins has 8 columns • The mean flipper length is
200.9152047

``` r
ggplot(penguins, aes(x = bill_length_mm,y = flipper_length_mm,color = species)) + geom_point()
```

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

![](p8105_hw1_zh2494_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave("scatter_plot.jpeg", height = 4, width = 4)
```

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_point).
